---
title: Overview
permalink: /docs/1-0/
---

| ---: | :--- |
| **Grade Level** | 6-8 |
| **Duration**  | 150 minutes  |
|   |   |

## Objectives
- Design and create simple, parallel, and computational circuits.
- Code sequential light patterns using functions.

## Computer Science Standards
- *CS.AP.6-8.1* use algorithms to address complex problems.
- *CS.AP.6-8.2* create clearly named variables that represent different data types and perform operations on their values.
- *CS.AP.6-8.10* document programs in order to make them easier to follow, test, and debug.

## Materials
The following materials are required for this lesson:
- 1 Computer with Arduino IDE downloaded
- 1 Circuit Playground Classic
- Copper tape
- 3 LEDs
- 4 Alligator clips
- 1 USB to microUSB
- Card stock

## Vocabulary
The following are terms used in this activity.

 Term | Definition
 ---: | --
**Circuit**  |  composed of individual electronic components, such as LEDs, connected by conductive material (copper tape or conductive thread) which electric current can flow through.
**Current**  |  a flow of positive electric charge.
**Conductor**  |  materials that allow the flow of electric current.
**Insulator**  |  materials that block the flow of electric current.
**Load**  | any component in an electrical circuit that consumes power or energy.
**LED**  |  an example of a load; a device that emits light when an electric current passes through it.
**Polarity**  |  current flows in one direction from the positive pole to the negative pole of a power source in our circuits.
**Circuit Diagram**  |  a way to visualize and communicate circuits to others.
**Microcontroller**  |  a small computer on a single chip that stores a single program. The Circuit Playground Express is an example of a microcontroller.
**Variable**  |  used to store information to be referenced and manipulated in a computer program.
**Function**  |  a “chunk” of code that you can use over and over again by name.
